Voting systems have strict security and privacy requirements, which are
different from those in many other domains. They must not expose
information that connects voters and their votes; moreover, to prevent
voter coercion, individual voters must not themselves be able to expose
information that proves how they voted. These requirements are
fundamentally in tension with exposing enough information to determine
that the counted votes match the cast votes, and are difficult to
fulfill even in purely physical voting systems.

Over the past two decades, various forms of Internet-based voting have
been proposed and carried out in the United States and other countries.
A primary motivation for Internet voting is accessibility, both for
voters with disabilities and for voters who cannot easily visit polling
places or submit absentee ballots in a timely fashion (e.g.,
expatriates, those serving abroad in the military, etc.).

Unfortunately, though well-intentioned, these Internet voting systems
have generally been fraught with security and privacy issues. Some
systems used in national-level elections have been subsequently found to
leak voter and vote information and to be susceptible to various forms
of manipulation that can untraceably alter election results. This has
led many activists and technologists to write off Internet voting as
inherently insecure and unsuitable for use in real elections.

In December 2013 the Overseas Vote Foundation (OVF) announced the
End-to-End Verifiable Internet Voting Project (E2E VIV). Its goal is to
study the feasibility of developing an Internet-based system that
fulfills the security and privacy requirements associated with voting
while providing transparent, trustworthy, auditable elections. Galois
has been managing the technical aspects of the E2E VIV project. In this
role we have developed a comprehensive set of requirements that an E2E
VIV system must satisfy, a high-level architecture for such a system,
and demonstration implementations of some of its components.

Currently, the cryptography, security, auditing, and elections experts
involved in the project (including the likes of Josh Beneloh, David
Wagner, Dan Wallach, David Jefferson, Philip Stark, and the elections
officials responsible for Los Angeles, Austin, Tallahassee, and
Albuquerque) are reflecting upon these artifacts and attempting to
design a new generation of E2E VIV system that can satisfy the needs of
overseas, military, and disabled voters.

In this talk we will reflect upon the background and state of the E2E
VIV project, focusing on the novel privacy-preserving and high-assurance
aspects of the system from both algorithmic and systems points-of-view.
