Voter Credentials Breakout Group, 1/31/14
(rev. 2/1/14)

Ron Rivest, Tammy Patrick, Doug Jones, David Jefferson, 
Barbara Simons, Duncan Buell, Roman Montoya

Goal: provide "credentials" to each voter to be used to "vote" (obtain & cast ballot)
      prevent large-scale automated attacks

Good discussion; great to have both EO's and techies!

Framework with many possibilities for variations and adaptations:

Adapts "multi-channel" approach to establish PINs for voters.

Assumes voters have already registered.  EO's maintain database
of personal information and PINs.

Think of PIN as a 10-digit number (like a phone number).

PIN can be set up over some channel.  Voter's "email PIN" is
one set up over email.  Her "postal PIN" is set up over postal
channel. Etc..

Possible channels: 
  in-person
  email
  postal (Filip suggests cards with scratch-off)
  telephone (LEO chat with voter about personal info, say)
  video
  ...

Each PIN has a "validity period" (maybe a year... depends).

Rough rule: to vote, voter needs TWO such PINs, from different channels.
            Example: one PIN from email, one from postal mailing.
            Analogy: two-factor authentication methods for banking.

This gives two 10-digit pins, i.e. 20-digits of PIN, which can be used
to authenticate voter.  (Such as by setting up cryptographic channel with
encryption and message authentication codes.)

Lots of room for policy adjustments, e.g.:
  -- maybe one "in-person-PIN" is enough
  -- maybe for military voters, two email PINs are enough, if
     separated by more than one day.
  -- ...
  -- Are PINs sent out in automated manner to all registered
     voters, or only on request?  (Phone channel might be by
     request, email could be automatic...)

Many of the messy policy questions end up residing in the 
voter registration process, which precedes this credentialling
process.

Using multi-channel here in credentialling may make unnecessary
its use in vote-casting later.

Need to keep in mind the goal is to prevent automated attacks!
(Reducing to one email PIN is not good!)

E2E provides some mitigation of problems, since voter impersonation
(with stolen credentials) can be detected and corrected.

Signatures (i.e. image of wet-ink signature) might be usable/acceptable
as another "PIN", although this has somewhat different characteristics
and issues.

Database of PINs of course needs to be well-protected!

Josh Benaloh suggests that 10 digits is too short: if one of the
two PINs is compromised, they other doesn't provide enough entropy.
So, perhaps the PIN's should be longer (18 digits??)

-- end








                   
